src/main/asciidoc/creating-example.adoc, before:

[[creating-your-first-jakarta-ee-application]]
== Creating Your First Jakarta EE Application

This chapter gives an overview of the example applications and
step-by-step instructions on coding and running the `dukes-age` web
service example application.

[[architecture-of-the-example-applications]]
=== Architecture of the Example Applications

The example applications consist of four main components:
`DukesAgeResource`, a JAX-RS RESTful web service; `DukesBirthdayBean`,
an enterprise bean; `FirstcupUser`, a Java Persistence API entity; and
`firstcup-war`, a web application created with JavaServer Faces Facelets
technology.

[[GJBEW]]

.*Figure 3-1 Architecture of the First Cup Example Applications*
image:firstcup-architecture.png[
"Architecture of First Cup example applications."]

`DukesAgeResource` is a JAX-RS resource that calculates the age of Duke,
the Java mascot. Duke was born May 23, 1995, when the first demo of Java
technology was publicly released.

`DukesBirthdayBean` is a local, no-interface view stateless session bean
that calculates the difference between the user's age and Duke's age and
stores the user-submitted data in a Java Persistence API entity.

`FirstcupUser` is a Java Persistence API entity that represents a
particular user's birthday. It is stored in an Apache Derby table and
managed by the `DukesBirthdayBean` business methods.

The `firstcup-war` web application is a JavaServer Faces Facelets
application that accesses `DukesAgeResource` to display Duke's age,
reads in a date provided by the user, accesses `DukesBirthdayBean` to
calculate who is older, and then displays the difference in years
between the user and Duke and the average age difference of all users.

The `firstcup-war` web application consists of the following:

* `greeting.xhtml`: A Facelets-enabled XHTML page, which is a page that
uses the JavaServer Faces Facelets tag libraries. Users can type their
birth date in a field and submit it for comparison against Duke's birth
date.
* `response.xhtml`: A Facelets-enabled XHTML page that tells the user
whether he or she is older or younger than Duke, based on the date the
user entered in the `greeting.xhtml` page, and displays the average age
difference of all users.
* `DukesBDay.java`: A CDI managed bean that defines properties to hold
the user's birth date, uses the JAX-RS Client API to get Duke's current
age from the `DukesAgeResource` web service, and calculates the age
difference between the user and Duke from the enterprise bean.
* `web.xml`: The web application's deployment descriptor, which is used
to configure certain aspects of a web application when it is installed.
In this case, it is used to provide a mapping to the application's
`FacesServlet` instance, which accepts incoming requests, passes them to
the life cycle for processing, and initializes resources. It also
specifies `greeting.xhtml` as the welcome file for the application.
* `WebMessages.properties` and `WebMessages_es.properties`: Java
programming language properties files that contain the localized strings
used in `greeting.xhtml` and `response.xhtml`. By default, the English
language strings in `WebMessages.properties` are used, but Spanish
language strings are also provided in `WebMessages_es.properties`.
* `DukesBirthdayBean.java`: as described above, the enterprise bean
packaged within the `firstcup-war` application. `DukesBirthdayBean`
calculates the difference between the user's birthday and Duke's
birthday.

[[tiers-in-the-example-applications]]
==== Tiers in the Example Applications

The example applications have a web tier component (the `firstcup-war`
web client), three business tier components (the `DukesAgeResource` web
service, the `FirstcupUser` entity, and the `DukesBirthdayBean`
enterprise bean), and an enterprise information system (EIS) tier (the
data in the Apache Derby database table). The user's web browser is the
client tier component, as it accesses the rest of the application
through the web tier.

[[jakarta-ee-technologies-used-in-the-example-applications]]
==== Jakarta EE Technologies Used in the Example Applications

The `DukesAgeResource` web service is a JAX-RS resource. The
`DukesBirthdayBean` enterprise bean is a stateless session bean. The
`FirstcupUser` entity is a Java Persistence API entity. The `DukesBDay`
CDI managed bean uses the JAX-RS client API to access the
`DukesAgeResource` web service. The `firstcup-war` web client is a
JavaServer Faces application that runs in the web container of the Java
EE server.

[[coding-the-dukes-age-example-application]]
=== Coding the dukes-age Example Application

This section describes how to code the `dukes-age` example application,
a web application containing a JAX-RS RESTful web service endpoint.

[[getting-started]]
==== Getting Started

Before you start coding the example, you need to perform some
configuration tasks:

1.  Register the server with your NetBeans IDE as described in
link:intro002.html#GIOEW[Add GlassFish Server as a Server in NetBeans
IDE].
2.  Install the Maven archetypes used to create the example
applications.

[[install-the-maven-archetypes]]
===== Install the Maven Archetypes

Maven archetypes are templates that create the structure of a particular
application. There are two archetypes included in the example,
`dukes-age-archetype` and `firstcup-war-archetype`. These archetypes
create Jakarta EE 8 web applications that you will then edit and deploy.

Before you can create applications based on the archetypes, you must
first install the archetypes and supporting projects to your local Maven
repository by following these steps:

1.  In NetBeans IDE select *File*, then *Open Project*, navigate to the
location where you installed the tutorial (usually
`glassfish5/docs/firstcup`), select `example`, deselect the *Open
Required Projects* check box, and click *Open Project*.
2.  Right-click the `firstcup` project in the Projects pane and select
*Build*.

The required projects, including the archetypes, will be built.

[[creating-the-web-service]]
==== Creating the Web Service

The `DukesAgeResource` endpoint is a simple RESTful web service. REST
stands for _representational state transfer_, and software architectures
that conform to the principles of REST are referred to as _RESTful_.
RESTful web services are web-based applications that use the HTTP
protocol to access, modify, or delete information contained within a
_resource_. A RESTful web service resource is a source of specific
information identifiable by a uniform resource identifier (URI), for
example `http://example.com/someResource`, and may be manipulated by
calling the HTTP protocol's methods, for example GET or POST.

Web services are designed to be independent of their clients. Typically
RESTful web services are publicly available to a wide variety of
clients, and the clients are located throughout the Internet. This is
called "loose coupling", because the clients and servers are connected only
by the standard HTTP-based requests and responses, and do not need to
know each other's implementation details. For this reason, `dukes-age`
will be developed in its own application module and deployed separately
from the `DukesBirthdayBean` enterprise bean and `firstcup-war` web
client. The `dukes-age` web application could be deployed on a completely different machine
without affecting the functionality of the `firstcup-war` web client.

[[jax-rs-resources]]
===== JAX-RS Resources

The `DukesAgeResource` class is a JAX-RS resource class that responds to HTTP GET
requests and returns a `String` representing the age of Duke at the time
of the request.

The basic `DukesAgeResource` resource class is generated from the
`dukes-age-archetype` Maven archetype. This class is annotated with the
`javax.ws.rs.Path` annotation, which specifies the URL suffix to which
the resource will respond. The `DukesAgeResource` class has a single method,
`getText`, annotated with the `javax.ws.rs.GET` and
`javax.ws.rs.Produces` annotations. The `@GET` annotation marks the method as a
responder to HTTP GET requests, and `@Produces` specifies the MIME-type
of the response sent back from `getText` to clients. In this case, the
MIME-type is `text/plain`.

[[creating-the-dukes-age-application-using-the-maven-archetype]]
===== Creating the dukes-age Application Using the Maven Archetype

In NetBeans IDE, create a new web project using the
`dukes-age-archetype` Maven archetype.

Create the Project in NetBeans IDE 

1.  From the *File* menu, select *New Project*.
2.  Under *Categories*, select *Maven*.
3.  Under *Projects*, select *Project from Archetype*.
4.  Click *Next*.
5.  In the *Search* field, enter `dukes-age`.
6.  In the *Known Archetypes* field, select `dukes-age-archetype`.
7.  Click *Next*.
8.  In the *Project Name* field, enter `dukes-age`.
9.  In the *Package* field, enter `firstcup.dukesage.resource`.
10. Click *Finish*.
+
You should now see the module you created in the Projects tab. The
project is created in the `NetBeansProjects` directory under your home
directory.

The `dukes-age-archetype` archetype creates the structure of the JAX-RS
endpoint application, including:

* The `DukesAgeResource` resource class
* The `web.xml` deployment descriptor

After you create the basic application structure with the archetype, you
will configure how the application will run, implement the functionality
of the resource class, and then deploy the application.

Configure the dukes-age Web Application

Set the default URL that is brought up in a web browser when you run
`dukes-age`.

1.  In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `dukes-age` project and select
*Properties*.
2.  Under *Categories*, click *Run*.
3.  Under *Server*, select the GlassFish Server instance you configured.
4.  Under *Relative URL* enter `/webapi/dukesAge`.
5.  Click *OK*.

Implement the getText Method

Add code to `DukesAgeResource.getText` that calculates Duke's age at the
time of the request. To do this, use the `java.util.Calendar` and
`java.util.GregorianCalendar` classes to create an object representing
the date May 23, 1995, Duke's birthday. Then create another `Calendar`
object representing today's date, and subtract today's year from Duke's
birth year. If today's date falls before May 23, subtract a year from
this result. Then return the result as a `String` representation.

1.  Expand the *Source Packages* node, expand the
`firstcup.dukesage.resource` node, then double-click the
`DukesAgeResource.java` file to open it in the editor window.
2.  Highlight the current code in `getText` and replace it with the
following code:
+
[source,java]
----
// Create a new Calendar for Duke's birthday
Calendar dukesBirthday = new GregorianCalendar(1995, Calendar.MAY, 23);
// Create a new Calendar for today
Calendar now = GregorianCalendar.getInstance();

// Subtract today's year from Duke's birth year, 1995
int dukesAge = now.get(Calendar.YEAR) - dukesBirthday.get(Calendar.YEAR);
dukesBirthday.add(Calendar.YEAR, dukesAge);

// If today's date is before May 23, subtract a year from Duke's age
if (now.before(dukesBirthday)) {
    dukesAge--;
}
// Return a String representation of Duke's age
return "" + dukesAge;
----

3.  In the editor window, right-click and select *Format*.
4.  From the *File* menu, select *Save* to save the file.

[[starting-glassfish-server-and-the-database-server]]
===== Starting GlassFish Server and the Database Server

Follow these steps to start GlassFish Server and Apache Derby.

1.  Click the *Services* tab.
2.  Expand *Servers*.
3.  Right-click the GlassFish Server instance and select *Start*.
+
Both the database server and the GlassFish Server instance will start.
In the tab where the GlassFish Server instance is running, you can see
the contents of the server log.

[[building-and-deploying-the-web-service-endpoint]]
===== Building and Deploying the Web Service Endpoint

Build `dukes-age.war`, the JAX-RS web application, and deploy it to your
GlassFish Server instance.

In the *Projects* tab, right-click `dukes-age` and select *Run*.

After `dukes-age.war` deploys successfully to GlassFish Server, a web
browser will load the URL of the `DukesAgeResource` path, and you'll see
the returned `String` representing Duke's age.

At this point, you've successfully created, deployed, and run your first
Jakarta EE application. Now you will create a web application that uses
this web service data.

Commit message:

Java EE -> Jakarta EE
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/creating-example.adoc, after:

[[creating-your-first-jakarta-ee-application]]
== Creating Your First Jakarta EE Application

This chapter gives an overview of the example applications and
step-by-step instructions on coding and running the `dukes-age` web
service example application.

[[architecture-of-the-example-applications]]
=== Architecture of the Example Applications

The example applications consist of four main components:
`DukesAgeResource`, a Jakarta RESTful web service; `DukesBirthdayBean`,
an enterprise bean; `FirstcupUser`, a Java Persistence API entity; and
`firstcup-war`, a web application created with JavaServer Faces Facelets
technology.

[[GJBEW]]

.*Figure 3-1 Architecture of the First Cup Example Applications*
image:firstcup-architecture.png[
"Architecture of First Cup example applications."]

`DukesAgeResource` is a Jakarta REST resource that calculates the age of Duke,
the Java mascot. Duke was born May 23, 1995, when the first demo of Java
technology was publicly released.

`DukesBirthdayBean` is a local, no-interface view stateless session bean
that calculates the difference between the user's age and Duke's age and
stores the user-submitted data in a Java Persistence API entity.

`FirstcupUser` is a Jakarta Persistence entity that represents a
particular user's birthday. It is stored in an Apache Derby table and
managed by the `DukesBirthdayBean` business methods.

The `firstcup-war` web application is a Jakarta Server Faces Facelets
application that accesses `DukesAgeResource` to display Duke's age,
reads in a date provided by the user, accesses `DukesBirthdayBean` to
calculate who is older, and then displays the difference in years
between the user and Duke and the average age difference of all users.

The `firstcup-war` web application consists of the following:

* `greeting.xhtml`: A Facelets-enabled XHTML page, which is a page that
uses the JavaServer Faces Facelets tag libraries. Users can type their
birth date in a field and submit it for comparison against Duke's birth
date.
* `response.xhtml`: A Facelets-enabled XHTML page that tells the user
whether he or she is older or younger than Duke, based on the date the
user entered in the `greeting.xhtml` page, and displays the average age
difference of all users.
* `DukesBDay.java`: A CDI managed bean that defines properties to hold
the user's birth date, uses the Jakarta REST Client API to get Duke's current
age from the `DukesAgeResource` web service, and calculates the age
difference between the user and Duke from the enterprise bean.
* `web.xml`: The web application's deployment descriptor, which is used
to configure certain aspects of a web application when it is installed.
In this case, it is used to provide a mapping to the application's
`FacesServlet` instance, which accepts incoming requests, passes them to
the life cycle for processing, and initializes resources. It also
specifies `greeting.xhtml` as the welcome file for the application.
* `WebMessages.properties` and `WebMessages_es.properties`: Java
programming language properties files that contain the localized strings
used in `greeting.xhtml` and `response.xhtml`. By default, the English
language strings in `WebMessages.properties` are used, but Spanish
language strings are also provided in `WebMessages_es.properties`.
* `DukesBirthdayBean.java`: as described above, the enterprise bean
packaged within the `firstcup-war` application. `DukesBirthdayBean`
calculates the difference between the user's birthday and Duke's
birthday.

[[tiers-in-the-example-applications]]
==== Tiers in the Example Applications

The example applications have a web tier component (the `firstcup-war`
web client), three business tier components (the `DukesAgeResource` web
service, the `FirstcupUser` entity, and the `DukesBirthdayBean`
enterprise bean), and an enterprise information system (EIS) tier (the
data in the Apache Derby database table). The user's web browser is the
client tier component, as it accesses the rest of the application
through the web tier.

[[jakarta-ee-technologies-used-in-the-example-applications]]
==== Jakarta EE Technologies Used in the Example Applications

The `DukesAgeResource` web service is a Jakarta REST resource. The
`DukesBirthdayBean` enterprise bean is a stateless session bean. The
`FirstcupUser` entity is a Jakarta Persistence entity. The `DukesBDay`
CDI managed bean uses the Jakarta REST client API to access the
`DukesAgeResource` web service. The `firstcup-war` web client is a
JavaServer Faces application that runs in the web container of the Jakarta
EE server.

[[coding-the-dukes-age-example-application]]
=== Coding the dukes-age Example Application

This section describes how to code the `dukes-age` example application,
a web application containing a Jakarta RESTful web service endpoint.

[[getting-started]]
==== Getting Started

Before you start coding the example, you need to perform some
configuration tasks:

1.  Register the server with your Apache NetBeans IDE as described in
link:intro002.html#GIOEW[Add GlassFish Server as a Server in NetBeans
IDE].
2.  Install the Maven archetypes used to create the example
applications.

[[install-the-maven-archetypes]]
===== Install the Maven Archetypes

Maven archetypes are templates that create the structure of a particular
application. There are two archetypes included in the example,
`dukes-age-archetype` and `firstcup-war-archetype`. These archetypes
create Jakarta EE 8 web applications that you will then edit and deploy.

Before you can create applications based on the archetypes, you must
first install the archetypes and supporting projects to your local Maven
repository by following these steps:

1.  In Apache NetBeans IDE select *File*, then *Open Project*, navigate to the
location where you installed the tutorial (usually
`glassfish5/docs/firstcup`), select `example`, deselect the *Open
Required Projects* check box, and click *Open Project*.
2.  Right-click the `firstcup` project in the Projects pane and select
*Build*.

The required projects, including the archetypes, will be built.

[[creating-the-web-service]]
==== Creating the Web Service

The `DukesAgeResource` endpoint is a simple RESTful web service. REST
stands for _representational state transfer_, and software architectures
that conform to the principles of REST are referred to as _RESTful_.
RESTful web services are web-based applications that use the HTTP
protocol to access, modify, or delete information contained within a
_resource_. A RESTful web service resource is a source of specific
information identifiable by a uniform resource identifier (URI), for
example `http://example.com/someResource`, and may be manipulated by
calling the HTTP protocol's methods, for example GET or POST.

Web services are designed to be independent of their clients. Typically
RESTful web services are publicly available to a wide variety of
clients, and the clients are located throughout the Internet. This is
called "loose coupling", because the clients and servers are connected only
by the standard HTTP-based requests and responses, and do not need to
know each other's implementation details. For this reason, `dukes-age`
will be developed in its own application module and deployed separately
from the `DukesBirthdayBean` enterprise bean and `firstcup-war` web
client. The `dukes-age` web application could be deployed on a completely different machine
without affecting the functionality of the `firstcup-war` web client.

[[jax-rs-resources]]
===== Jakarta REST Resources

The `DukesAgeResource` class is a Jakarta REST resource class that responds to HTTP GET
requests and returns a `String` representing the age of Duke at the time
of the request.

The basic `DukesAgeResource` resource class is generated from the
`dukes-age-archetype` Maven archetype. This class is annotated with the
`javax.ws.rs.Path` annotation, which specifies the URL suffix to which
the resource will respond. The `DukesAgeResource` class has a single method,
`getText`, annotated with the `javax.ws.rs.GET` and
`javax.ws.rs.Produces` annotations. The `@GET` annotation marks the method as a
responder to HTTP GET requests, and `@Produces` specifies the MIME-type
of the response sent back from `getText` to clients. In this case, the
MIME-type is `text/plain`.

[[creating-the-dukes-age-application-using-the-maven-archetype]]
===== Creating the dukes-age Application Using the Maven Archetype

In NetBeans IDE, create a new web project using the
`dukes-age-archetype` Maven archetype.

Create the Project in Apache NetBeans IDE 

1.  From the *File* menu, select *New Project*.
2.  Under *Categories*, select *Maven*.
3.  Under *Projects*, select *Project from Archetype*.
4.  Click *Next*.
5.  In the *Search* field, enter `dukes-age`.
6.  In the *Known Archetypes* field, select `dukes-age-archetype`.
7.  Click *Next*.
8.  In the *Project Name* field, enter `dukes-age`.
9.  In the *Package* field, enter `firstcup.dukesage.resource`.
10. Click *Finish*.
+
You should now see the module you created in the Projects tab. The
project is created in the `NetBeansProjects` directory under your home
directory.

The `dukes-age-archetype` archetype creates the structure of the JAX-RS
endpoint application, including:

* The `DukesAgeResource` resource class
* The `web.xml` deployment descriptor

After you create the basic application structure with the archetype, you
will configure how the application will run, implement the functionality
of the resource class, and then deploy the application.

Configure the dukes-age Web Application

Set the default URL that is brought up in a web browser when you run
`dukes-age`.

1.  In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `dukes-age` project and select
*Properties*.
2.  Under *Categories*, click *Run*.
3.  Under *Server*, select the GlassFish Server instance you configured.
4.  Under *Relative URL* enter `/webapi/dukesAge`.
5.  Click *OK*.

Implement the getText Method

Add code to `DukesAgeResource.getText` that calculates Duke's age at the
time of the request. To do this, use the `java.util.Calendar` and
`java.util.GregorianCalendar` classes to create an object representing
the date May 23, 1995, Duke's birthday. Then create another `Calendar`
object representing today's date, and subtract today's year from Duke's
birth year. If today's date falls before May 23, subtract a year from
this result. Then return the result as a `String` representation.

1.  Expand the *Source Packages* node, expand the
`firstcup.dukesage.resource` node, then double-click the
`DukesAgeResource.java` file to open it in the editor window.
2.  Highlight the current code in `getText` and replace it with the
following code:
+
[source,java]
----
// Create a new Calendar for Duke's birthday
Calendar dukesBirthday = new GregorianCalendar(1995, Calendar.MAY, 23);
// Create a new Calendar for today
Calendar now = GregorianCalendar.getInstance();

// Subtract today's year from Duke's birth year, 1995
int dukesAge = now.get(Calendar.YEAR) - dukesBirthday.get(Calendar.YEAR);
dukesBirthday.add(Calendar.YEAR, dukesAge);

// If today's date is before May 23, subtract a year from Duke's age
if (now.before(dukesBirthday)) {
    dukesAge--;
}
// Return a String representation of Duke's age
return "" + dukesAge;
----

3.  In the editor window, right-click and select *Format*.
4.  From the *File* menu, select *Save* to save the file.

[[starting-glassfish-server-and-the-database-server]]
===== Starting GlassFish Server and the Database Server

Follow these steps to start GlassFish Server and Apache Derby.

1.  Click the *Services* tab.
2.  Expand *Servers*.
3.  Right-click the GlassFish Server instance and select *Start*.
+
Both the database server and the GlassFish Server instance will start.
In the tab where the GlassFish Server instance is running, you can see
the contents of the server log.

[[building-and-deploying-the-web-service-endpoint]]
===== Building and Deploying the Web Service Endpoint

Build `dukes-age.war`, the Jakarta REST web application, and deploy it to your
GlassFish Server instance.

In the *Projects* tab, right-click `dukes-age` and select *Run*.

After `dukes-age.war` deploys successfully to GlassFish Server, a web
browser will load the URL of the `DukesAgeResource` path, and you'll see
the returned `String` representing Duke's age.

At this point, you've successfully created, deployed, and run your first
Jakarta EE application. Now you will create a web application that uses
this web service data.
