src/main/asciidoc/intro.adoc, before:

== Introduction

This chapter outlines the goals and the prerequisites for completing
this tutorial.

=== Goals of This Tutorial

At the completion of this tutorial, you will:

* Understand the basics of tiered applications
* Understand the basics of the Jakarta EE platform
* Have created a multitiered Jakarta EE application
* Have deployed and run your application on a Jakarta EE server
* Know where to go next for more information on the Jakarta EE platform

=== Prerequisite Tasks for Completing This Tutorial

To complete this tutorial, you need to complete the following tasks
first:

* link:#software-compatibility[See the software compatibility notice]
* link:#get-the-jakarta-ee-8-sdk[Get the Jakarta EE 8 SDK]
* link:#install-the-netbeans-ide-distribution-for-java-ee[Install the NetBeans IDE distribution for Java EE]
* link:#add-glassfish-server-as-a-server-in-netbeans-ide[Add GlassFish Server as a server in NetBeans IDE]
////
* link:#get-the-latest-updates-to-this-tutorial[Get the latest updates to this tutorial]
////

[[software-compatibility]]
==== Software Compatibility Notice

This tutorial is compatible with the following software:

[width="55%",cols="30%,60%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Software* |*Version*
|link:http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html[Java Development Kit (JDK)] | 8 update 144 (8u144) or greater
|link:https://javaee.github.io/glassfish/[GlassFish Server] | 5.0 or greater
|link:https://netbeans.org/[NetBeans IDE] | 8.2 or greater
|link:https://eclipse.org/ide/[Eclipse IDE] | 4.7.0 or greater

|=======================================================================

[[get-the-jakarta-ee-8-sdk]]
==== Get the Jakarta EE 8 SDK

To get the Jakarta EE 8 SDK, go to
`http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/jakartaee/downloads/`. Download and
install the SDK. The location where you install it is typically
`glassfish5` in your home directory, but you can change this.

The tutorial is installed in the `docs/firstcup` directory of your SDK
installation.

[[install-the-netbeans-ide-distribution-for-java-ee]]
==== Install the NetBeans IDE Distribution for Java EE

To get NetBeans IDE, go to `https://netbeans.org/downloads/` and
download the Java EE distribution. Install this distribution.

[[add-glassfish-server-as-a-server-in-netbeans-ide]]
==== Add GlassFish Server as a Server in NetBeans IDE

Once you have all the necessary downloads, you must configure NetBeans
IDE and get the latest tutorial updates.

To run this tutorial in NetBeans IDE, you must register your GlassFish
Server installation as a NetBeans server instance. Follow these
instructions to register the GlassFish Server in NetBeans IDE.

1.  From the *Tools* menu, select *Servers*.
2.  In the Servers dialog, click *Add Server*.
3.  Under *Choose Server*, select *GlassFish Server* and click *Next*.
4.  Under *Server Location*, browse to or enter the location of your
GlassFish Server installation.
5.  Click *Next*.
6.  Under *Domain Location*, select the default domain, `domain1`.
7.  Click *Finish*.

Commit message:

Java EE -> Jakarta EE
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/intro.adoc, after:

== Introduction

This chapter outlines the goals and the prerequisites for completing
this tutorial.

=== Goals of This Tutorial

At the completion of this tutorial, you will:

* Understand the basics of tiered applications
* Understand the basics of the Jakarta EE platform
* Have created a multitiered Jakarta EE application
* Have deployed and run your application on a Jakarta EE server
* Know where to go next for more information on the Jakarta EE platform

=== Prerequisite Tasks for Completing This Tutorial

To complete this tutorial, you need to complete the following tasks
first:

* link:#software-compatibility[See the software compatibility notice]
* link:#get-the-jakarta-ee-8-sdk[Get the Jakarta EE 8 SDK]
* link:#install-the-netbeans-ide-distribution-for-java-ee[Install the Apache NetBeans IDE distribution for Jakarta EE]
* link:#add-glassfish-server-as-a-server-in-netbeans-ide[Add GlassFish Server as a server in Apache NetBeans IDE]
////
* link:#get-the-latest-updates-to-this-tutorial[Get the latest updates to this tutorial]
////

[[software-compatibility]]
==== Software Compatibility Notice

This tutorial is compatible with the following software:

[width="55%",cols="30%,60%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Software* |*Version*
|link:https://adoptopenjdk.net/[Java Development Kit (JDK)] | 8 update 144 (8u144) or greater
|link:https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/glassfish/[GlassFish Server] | 5.1 or greater
|link:https://netbeans.apache.org/[Apache NetBeans IDE] | 8.2 or greater
|link:https://eclipse.org/ide/[Eclipse IDE] | 4.7.0 or greater

|=======================================================================

[[get-the-jakarta-ee-8-sdk]]
==== Get the Jakarta EE 8 SDK

To get the Jakarta EE 8 SDK, go to
`https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/glassfish/download/`. Download and
install the SDK. The location where you install it is typically
`glassfish5` in your home directory, but you can change this.

The tutorial is installed in the `docs/firstcup` directory of your SDK
installation.

[[install-the-netbeans-ide-distribution-for-java-ee]]
==== Install the Apache NetBeans IDE Distribution for Jakarta EE

To get Apache NetBeans IDE, go to `https://netbeans.apache.org/download/` and
download the Jakarta EE distribution. Install this distribution.

[[add-glassfish-server-as-a-server-in-netbeans-ide]]
==== Add GlassFish Server as a Server in Apache NetBeans IDE

Once you have all the necessary downloads, you must configure NetBeans
IDE and get the latest tutorial updates.

To run this tutorial in Apache NetBeans IDE, you must register your GlassFish
Server installation as a NetBeans server instance. Follow these
instructions to register the GlassFish Server in Apache NetBeans IDE.

1.  From the *Tools* menu, select *Servers*.
2.  In the Servers dialog, click *Add Server*.
3.  Under *Choose Server*, select *GlassFish Server* and click *Next*.
4.  Under *Server Location*, browse to or enter the location of your
GlassFish Server installation.
5.  Click *Next*.
6.  Under *Domain Location*, select the default domain, `domain1`.
7.  Click *Finish*.
