src/main/jbake/content/creating-example001.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Architecture of the Example Applications
next=creating-example002.html
prev=creating-example.html
~~~~~~
= Architecture of the Example Applications


[[GKHQT]][[architecture-of-the-example-applications]]

Architecture of the Example Applications
----------------------------------------

The example applications consist of four main components:
`DukesAgeResource`, a JAX-RS RESTful web service; `DukesBirthdayBean`,
an enterprise bean; `FirstcupUser`, a Java Persistence API entity; and
`firstcup-war`, a web application created with JavaServer Faces Facelets
technology.

[[GJBEW]]

.*Figure 3-1 Architecture of the First Cup Example Applications*
image:img/firstcup-architecture.png[
"Architecture of First Cup example applications."]

`DukesAgeResource` is a JAX-RS resource that calculates the age of Duke,
the Java mascot. Duke was born May 23, 1995, when the first demo of Java
technology was publicly released.

`DukesBirthdayBean` is a local, no-interface view stateless session bean
that calculates the difference between the user's age and Duke's age and
stores the user-submitted data in a Java Persistence API entity.

`FirstcupUser` is a Java Persistence API entity that represents a
particular user's birthday. It is stored in an Apache Derby table and
managed by the `DukesBirthdayBean` business methods.

The `firstcup-war` web application is a JavaServer Faces Facelets
application that accesses `DukesAgeResource` to display Duke's age,
reads in a date provided by the user, accesses `DukesBirthdayBean` to
calculate who is older, and then displays the difference in years
between the user and Duke and the average age difference of all users.

The `firstcup-war` web application consists of the following:

* `greeting.xhtml`: A Facelets-enabled XHTML page, which is a page that
uses the JavaServer Faces Facelets tag libraries. Users can type their
birth date in a field and submit it for comparison against Duke's birth
date.
* `response.xhtml`: A Facelets-enabled XHTML page that tells the user
whether he or she is older or younger than Duke, based on the date the
user entered in the `greeting.xhtml` page, and displays the average age
difference of all users.
* `DukesBDay.java`: A CDI managed bean that defines properties to hold
the user's birth date, uses the JAX-RS Client API to get Duke's current
age from the `DukesAgeResource` web service, and calculates the age
difference between the user and Duke from the enterprise bean.
* `web.xml`: The web application's deployment descriptor, which is used
to configure certain aspects of a web application when it is installed.
In this case, it is used to provide a mapping to the application's
`FacesServlet` instance, which accepts incoming requests, passes them to
the life cycle for processing, and initializes resources. It also
specifies `greeting.xhtml` as the welcome file for the application.
* `WebMessages.properties` and `WebMessages_es.properties`: Java
programming language properties files that contain the localized strings
used in `greeting.xhtml` and `response.xhtml`. By default, the English
language strings in `WebMessages.properties` are used, but Spanish
language strings are also provided in `WebMessages_es.properties`.
* `DukesBirthdayBean.java`: as described above, the enterprise bean
packaged within the `firstcup-war` application. `DukesBirthdayBean`
calculates the difference between the user's birthday and Duke's
birthday.

[[GCRLR]][[tiers-in-the-example-applications]]

Tiers in the Example Applications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The example applications have a web tier component (the `firstcup-war`
web client), three business tier components (the `DukesAgeResource` web
service, the `FirstcupUser` entity, and the `DukesBirthdayBean`
enterprise bean), and an enterprise information system (EIS) tier (the
data in the Apache Derby database table). The user's web browser is the
client tier component, as it accesses the rest of the application
through the web tier.

[[GCRLU]][[jakarta-ee-technologies-used-in-the-example-applications]]

Jakarta EE Technologies Used in the Example Applications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `DukesAgeResource` web service is a JAX-RS resource. The
`DukesBirthdayBean` enterprise bean is a stateless session bean. The
`FirstcupUser` entity is a Java Persistence API entity. The `DukesBDay`
CDI managed bean uses the JAX-RS client API to access the
`DukesAgeResource` web service. The `firstcup-war` web client is a
JavaServer Faces application that runs in the web container of the Java
EE server.

Commit message:

Substituting JAX-RS mentions for Jakarta RESTful Web Services at first page. Signed-off-by: Gabriel Bussolo <contact@gabrielbussolo.dev>
Signed-off-by: Gabriel Bussolo <contact@gabrielbussolo.dev>

src/main/jbake/content/creating-example001.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Architecture of the Example Applications
next=creating-example002.html
prev=creating-example.html
~~~~~~
= Architecture of the Example Applications


[[GKHQT]][[architecture-of-the-example-applications]]

Architecture of the Example Applications
----------------------------------------

The example applications consist of four main components:
`DukesAgeResource`, a _Jakarta RESTful Web Service_; `DukesBirthdayBean`,
an enterprise bean; `FirstcupUser`, a Java Persistence API entity; and
`firstcup-war`, a web application created with JavaServer Faces Facelets
technology.

[[GJBEW]]

.*Figure 3-1 Architecture of the First Cup Example Applications*
image:img/firstcup-architecture.png[
"Architecture of First Cup example applications."]

`DukesAgeResource` is a _Jakarta RESTful Web Service_ resource that calculates the age of Duke,
the Java mascot. Duke was born May 23, 1995, when the first demo of Java
technology was publicly released.

`DukesBirthdayBean` is a local, no-interface view stateless session bean
that calculates the difference between the user's age and Duke's age and
stores the user-submitted data in a Java Persistence API entity.

`FirstcupUser` is a Java Persistence API entity that represents a
particular user's birthday. It is stored in an Apache Derby table and
managed by the `DukesBirthdayBean` business methods.

The `firstcup-war` web application is a JavaServer Faces Facelets
application that accesses `DukesAgeResource` to display Duke's age,
reads in a date provided by the user, accesses `DukesBirthdayBean` to
calculate who is older, and then displays the difference in years
between the user and Duke and the average age difference of all users.

The `firstcup-war` web application consists of the following:

* `greeting.xhtml`: A Facelets-enabled XHTML page, which is a page that
uses the JavaServer Faces Facelets tag libraries. Users can type their
birth date in a field and submit it for comparison against Duke's birth
date.
* `response.xhtml`: A Facelets-enabled XHTML page that tells the user
whether he or she is older or younger than Duke, based on the date the
user entered in the `greeting.xhtml` page, and displays the average age
difference of all users.
* `DukesBDay.java`: A CDI managed bean that defines properties to hold
the user's birth date, uses the _Jakarta RESTful Web Service_ Client API to get Duke's current
age from the `DukesAgeResource` web service, and calculates the age
difference between the user and Duke from the enterprise bean.
* `web.xml`: The web application's deployment descriptor, which is used
to configure certain aspects of a web application when it is installed.
In this case, it is used to provide a mapping to the application's
`FacesServlet` instance, which accepts incoming requests, passes them to
the life cycle for processing, and initializes resources. It also
specifies `greeting.xhtml` as the welcome file for the application.
* `WebMessages.properties` and `WebMessages_es.properties`: Java
programming language properties files that contain the localized strings
used in `greeting.xhtml` and `response.xhtml`. By default, the English
language strings in `WebMessages.properties` are used, but Spanish
language strings are also provided in `WebMessages_es.properties`.
* `DukesBirthdayBean.java`: as described above, the enterprise bean
packaged within the `firstcup-war` application. `DukesBirthdayBean`
calculates the difference between the user's birthday and Duke's
birthday.

[[GCRLR]][[tiers-in-the-example-applications]]

Tiers in the Example Applications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The example applications have a web tier component (the `firstcup-war`
web client), three business tier components (the `DukesAgeResource` web
service, the `FirstcupUser` entity, and the `DukesBirthdayBean`
enterprise bean), and an enterprise information system (EIS) tier (the
data in the Apache Derby database table). The user's web browser is the
client tier component, as it accesses the rest of the application
through the web tier.

[[GCRLU]][[jakarta-ee-technologies-used-in-the-example-applications]]

Jakarta EE Technologies Used in the Example Applications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `DukesAgeResource` web service is a _Jakarta RESTful Web Service_ resource. The
`DukesBirthdayBean` enterprise bean is a stateless session bean. The
`FirstcupUser` entity is a Java Persistence API entity. The `DukesBDay`
CDI managed bean uses the _Jakarta RESTful Web Service_ client API to access the
`DukesAgeResource` web service. The `firstcup-war` web client is a
JavaServer Faces application that runs in the web container of the Java
EE server.
