src/main/jbake/content/creating-example002.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Coding the dukes-age Example Application
next=web-application.html
prev=creating-example001.html
~~~~~~
= Coding the dukes-age Example Application


[[GCRKM]][[coding-the-dukes-age-example-application]]

Coding the dukes-age Example Application
----------------------------------------

This section describes how to code the `dukes-age` example application,
a web application containing a JAX-RS RESTful web service endpoint.

[[GCSKG]][[getting-started]]

Getting Started
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before you start coding the example, you need to perform some
configuration tasks:

1.  Register the server with your NetBeans IDE as described in
link:intro002.html#GIOEW[Add GlassFish Server as a Server in NetBeans
IDE].
2.  Install the Maven archetypes used to create the example
applications.

[[GCSKJ]][[install-the-maven-archetypes]]

Install the Maven Archetypes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Maven archetypes are templates that create the structure of a particular
application. There are two archetypes included in the example,
`dukes-age-archetype` and `firstcup-war-archetype`. These archetypes
create Jakarta EE 8 web applications that you will then edit and deploy.

Before you can create applications based on the archetypes, you must
first install the archetypes and supporting projects to your local Maven
repository by following these steps:

1.  In NetBeans IDE select *File*, then *Open Project*, navigate to the
location where you installed the tutorial (usually
`glassfish5/docs/firstcup`), select `example`, deselect the *Open
Required Projects* check box, and click *Open Project*.
2.  Right-click the `firstcup` project in the Projects pane and select
*Build*.

The required projects, including the archetypes, will be built.

[[GCRKN]][[creating-the-web-service]]

Creating the Web Service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `DukesAgeResource` endpoint is a simple RESTful web service. REST
stands for _representational state transfer_, and software architectures
that conform to the principles of REST are referred to as _RESTful_.
RESTful web services are web-based applications that use the HTTP
protocol to access, modify, or delete information contained within a
_resource_. A RESTful web service resource is a source of specific
information identifiable by a uniform resource identifier (URI), for
example `http://example.com/someResource`, and may be manipulated by
calling the HTTP protocol's methods, for example GET or POST.

Web services are designed to be independent of their clients. Typically
RESTful web services are publicly available to a wide variety of
clients, and the clients are located throughout the Internet. This is
called "loose coupling", because the clients and servers are connected only
by the standard HTTP-based requests and responses, and do not need to
know each other's implementation details. For this reason, `dukes-age`
will be developed in its own application module and deployed separately
from the `DukesBirthdayBean` enterprise bean and `firstcup-war` web
client. The `dukes-age` web application could be deployed on a completely different machine
without affecting the functionality of the `firstcup-war` web client.

[[GCROM]][[jax-rs-resources]]

JAX-RS Resources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `DukesAgeResource` class is a JAX-RS resource class that responds to HTTP GET
requests and returns a `String` representing the age of Duke at the time
of the request.

The basic `DukesAgeResource` resource class is generated from the
`dukes-age-archetype` Maven archetype. This class is annotated with the
`javax.ws.rs.Path` annotation, which specifies the URL suffix to which
the resource will respond. The `DukesAgeResource` class has a single method,
`getText`, annotated with the `javax.ws.rs.GET` and
`javax.ws.rs.Produces` annotations. The `@GET` annotation marks the method as a
responder to HTTP GET requests, and `@Produces` specifies the MIME-type
of the response sent back from `getText` to clients. In this case, the
MIME-type is `text/plain`.

[[GCROI]][[creating-the-dukes-age-application-using-the-maven-archetype]]

Creating the dukes-age Application Using the Maven Archetype
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In NetBeans IDE, create a new web project using the
`dukes-age-archetype` Maven archetype.

Create the Project in NetBeans IDE 

1.  From the *File* menu, select *New Project*.
2.  Under *Categories*, select *Maven*.
3.  Under *Projects*, select *Project from Archetype*.
4.  Click *Next*.
5.  In the *Search* field, enter `dukes-age`.
6.  In the *Known Archetypes* field, select `dukes-age-archetype`.
7.  Click *Next*.
8.  In the *Project Name* field, enter `dukes-age`.
9.  In the *Package* field, enter `firstcup.dukesage.resource`.
10. Click *Finish*.
+
You should now see the module you created in the Projects tab. The
project is created in the `NetBeansProjects` directory under your home
directory.

The `dukes-age-archetype` archetype creates the structure of the JAX-RS
endpoint application, including:

* The `DukesAgeResource` resource class
* The `web.xml` deployment descriptor

After you create the basic application structure with the archetype, you
will configure how the application will run, implement the functionality
of the resource class, and then deploy the application.

Configure the dukes-age Web Application

Set the default URL that is brought up in a web browser when you run
`dukes-age`.

1.  In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `dukes-age` project and select
*Properties*.
2.  Under *Categories*, click *Run*.
3.  Under *Server*, select the GlassFish Server instance you configured.
4.  Under *Relative URL* enter `/webapi/dukesAge`.
5.  Click *OK*.

Implement the getText Method

Add code to `DukesAgeResource.getText` that calculates Duke's age at the
time of the request. To do this, use the `java.util.Calendar` and
`java.util.GregorianCalendar` classes to create an object representing
the date May 23, 1995, Duke's birthday. Then create another `Calendar`
object representing today's date, and subtract today's year from Duke's
birth year. If today's date falls before May 23, subtract a year from
this result. Then return the result as a `String` representation.

1.  Expand the *Source Packages* node, expand the
`firstcup.dukesage.resource` node, then double-click the
`DukesAgeResource.java` file to open it in the editor window.
2.  Highlight the current code in `getText` and replace it with the
following code:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
// Create a new Calendar for Duke's birthday
Calendar dukesBirthday = new GregorianCalendar(1995, Calendar.MAY, 23);
// Create a new Calendar for today
Calendar now = GregorianCalendar.getInstance();

// Subtract today's year from Duke's birth year, 1995
int dukesAge = now.get(Calendar.YEAR) - dukesBirthday.get(Calendar.YEAR);
dukesBirthday.add(Calendar.YEAR, dukesAge);

// If today's date is before May 23, subtract a year from Duke's age
if (now.before(dukesBirthday)) {
    dukesAge--;
}
// Return a String representation of Duke's age
return "" + dukesAge;
----
3.  In the editor window, right-click and select *Format*.
4.  From the *File* menu, select *Save* to save the file.

[[sthref9]][[starting-glassfish-server-and-the-database-server]]

Starting GlassFish Server and the Database Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to start GlassFish Server and Apache Derby.

1.  Click the *Services* tab.
2.  Expand *Servers*.
3.  Right-click the GlassFish Server instance and select *Start*.
+
Both the database server and the GlassFish Server instance will start.
In the tab where the GlassFish Server instance is running, you can see
the contents of the server log.

[[GCTOZ]][[building-and-deploying-the-web-service-endpoint]]

Building and Deploying the Web Service Endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Build `dukes-age.war`, the JAX-RS web application, and deploy it to your
GlassFish Server instance.

In the *Projects* tab, right-click `dukes-age` and select *Run*.

After `dukes-age.war` deploys successfully to GlassFish Server, a web
browser will load the URL of the `DukesAgeResource` path, and you'll see
the returned `String` representing Duke's age.

At this point, you've successfully created, deployed, and run your first
Jakarta EE application. Now you will create a web application that uses
this web service data.

Commit message:

Installing Maven archetypes with Eclipse IDE
Signed-off-by: Gabriel Bussolo <contact@gabrielbussolo.dev>

src/main/jbake/content/creating-example002.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Coding the dukes-age Example Application
next=web-application.html
prev=creating-example001.html
~~~~~~
= Coding the dukes-age Example Application


[[GCRKM]][[coding-the-dukes-age-example-application]]

Coding the dukes-age Example Application
----------------------------------------

This section describes how to code the `dukes-age` example application,
a web application containing a JAX-RS RESTful web service endpoint.

[[GCSKG]][[getting-started]]

Getting Started
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before you start coding the example, you need to perform some
configuration tasks:

1.  Register the server with your NetBeans IDE as described in
link:intro002.html#GIOEW[Add GlassFish Server as a Server in Eclipse
IDE].
2.  Install the Maven archetypes used to create the example
applications.

[[GCSKJ]][[install-the-maven-archetypes]]

Install the Maven Archetypes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Maven archetypes are templates that create the structure of a particular
application. There are two archetypes included in the example,
`dukes-age-archetype` and `firstcup-war-archetype`. These archetypes
create Jakarta EE 8 web applications that you will then edit and deploy.

Before you can create applications based on the archetypes, you must
first install the archetypes and supporting projects to your local Maven
repository by following these steps:

1. In Eclipse IDE select *File* -> *Import...*, then search for
*Existing Maven Projects* and click *Next*
2. Click in *Browse...* and navigate to the location where you installed the
tutorial (usually glassfish5/docs/firstcup`), select `example`, click *Open*
and *Finish*.
3. Right-click the `firstcup-examples` project in the Project Explorer,
than go to *Run As* -> *Maven Install*

The required projects, including the archetypes, will be built.

After that you can delete the `firstcup-examples` from your Project Explorer.
Right-click the `firstcup-examples` than click *Delete*, check only
*Delete 5 nested projects* than click *OK*.


[[GCRKN]][[creating-the-web-service]]

Creating the Web Service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `DukesAgeResource` endpoint is a simple RESTful web service. REST
stands for _representational state transfer_, and software architectures
that conform to the principles of REST are referred to as _RESTful_.
RESTful web services are web-based applications that use the HTTP
protocol to access, modify, or delete information contained within a
_resource_. A RESTful web service resource is a source of specific
information identifiable by a uniform resource identifier (URI), for
example `http://example.com/someResource`, and may be manipulated by
calling the HTTP protocol's methods, for example GET or POST.

Web services are designed to be independent of their clients. Typically
RESTful web services are publicly available to a wide variety of
clients, and the clients are located throughout the Internet. This is
called "loose coupling", because the clients and servers are connected only
by the standard HTTP-based requests and responses, and do not need to
know each other's implementation details. For this reason, `dukes-age`
will be developed in its own application module and deployed separately
from the `DukesBirthdayBean` enterprise bean and `firstcup-war` web
client. The `dukes-age` web application could be deployed on a completely different machine
without affecting the functionality of the `firstcup-war` web client.

[[GCROM]][[jax-rs-resources]]

JAX-RS Resources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `DukesAgeResource` class is a JAX-RS resource class that responds to HTTP GET
requests and returns a `String` representing the age of Duke at the time
of the request.

The basic `DukesAgeResource` resource class is generated from the
`dukes-age-archetype` Maven archetype. This class is annotated with the
`javax.ws.rs.Path` annotation, which specifies the URL suffix to which
the resource will respond. The `DukesAgeResource` class has a single method,
`getText`, annotated with the `javax.ws.rs.GET` and
`javax.ws.rs.Produces` annotations. The `@GET` annotation marks the method as a
responder to HTTP GET requests, and `@Produces` specifies the MIME-type
of the response sent back from `getText` to clients. In this case, the
MIME-type is `text/plain`.

[[GCROI]][[creating-the-dukes-age-application-using-the-maven-archetype]]

Creating the dukes-age Application Using the Maven Archetype
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In NetBeans IDE, create a new web project using the
`dukes-age-archetype` Maven archetype.

Create the Project in NetBeans IDE 

1.  From the *File* menu, select *New Project*.
2.  Under *Categories*, select *Maven*.
3.  Under *Projects*, select *Project from Archetype*.
4.  Click *Next*.
5.  In the *Search* field, enter `dukes-age`.
6.  In the *Known Archetypes* field, select `dukes-age-archetype`.
7.  Click *Next*.
8.  In the *Project Name* field, enter `dukes-age`.
9.  In the *Package* field, enter `firstcup.dukesage.resource`.
10. Click *Finish*.
+
You should now see the module you created in the Projects tab. The
project is created in the `NetBeansProjects` directory under your home
directory.

The `dukes-age-archetype` archetype creates the structure of the JAX-RS
endpoint application, including:

* The `DukesAgeResource` resource class
* The `web.xml` deployment descriptor

After you create the basic application structure with the archetype, you
will configure how the application will run, implement the functionality
of the resource class, and then deploy the application.

Configure the dukes-age Web Application

Set the default URL that is brought up in a web browser when you run
`dukes-age`.

1.  In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `dukes-age` project and select
*Properties*.
2.  Under *Categories*, click *Run*.
3.  Under *Server*, select the GlassFish Server instance you configured.
4.  Under *Relative URL* enter `/webapi/dukesAge`.
5.  Click *OK*.

Implement the getText Method

Add code to `DukesAgeResource.getText` that calculates Duke's age at the
time of the request. To do this, use the `java.util.Calendar` and
`java.util.GregorianCalendar` classes to create an object representing
the date May 23, 1995, Duke's birthday. Then create another `Calendar`
object representing today's date, and subtract today's year from Duke's
birth year. If today's date falls before May 23, subtract a year from
this result. Then return the result as a `String` representation.

1.  Expand the *Source Packages* node, expand the
`firstcup.dukesage.resource` node, then double-click the
`DukesAgeResource.java` file to open it in the editor window.
2.  Highlight the current code in `getText` and replace it with the
following code:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
// Create a new Calendar for Duke's birthday
Calendar dukesBirthday = new GregorianCalendar(1995, Calendar.MAY, 23);
// Create a new Calendar for today
Calendar now = GregorianCalendar.getInstance();

// Subtract today's year from Duke's birth year, 1995
int dukesAge = now.get(Calendar.YEAR) - dukesBirthday.get(Calendar.YEAR);
dukesBirthday.add(Calendar.YEAR, dukesAge);

// If today's date is before May 23, subtract a year from Duke's age
if (now.before(dukesBirthday)) {
    dukesAge--;
}
// Return a String representation of Duke's age
return "" + dukesAge;
----
3.  In the editor window, right-click and select *Format*.
4.  From the *File* menu, select *Save* to save the file.

[[sthref9]][[starting-glassfish-server-and-the-database-server]]

Starting GlassFish Server and the Database Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to start GlassFish Server and Apache Derby.

1.  Click the *Services* tab.
2.  Expand *Servers*.
3.  Right-click the GlassFish Server instance and select *Start*.
+
Both the database server and the GlassFish Server instance will start.
In the tab where the GlassFish Server instance is running, you can see
the contents of the server log.

[[GCTOZ]][[building-and-deploying-the-web-service-endpoint]]

Building and Deploying the Web Service Endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Build `dukes-age.war`, the JAX-RS web application, and deploy it to your
GlassFish Server instance.

In the *Projects* tab, right-click `dukes-age` and select *Run*.

After `dukes-age.war` deploys successfully to GlassFish Server, a web
browser will load the URL of the `DukesAgeResource` path, and you'll see
the returned `String` representing Duke's age.

At this point, you've successfully created, deployed, and run your first
Jakarta EE application. Now you will create a web application that uses
this web service data.
